# Virtual Machine I - Stack Arithmetic & Memory Access

A VM translator designed to translate programs written in the VM language into
lower-level programs written in the machine language (Hack assembly language) of
some concrete (rather than virtual) host computer.

Learn more about the project: [Project 7](https://www.nand2tetris.org/project07)

## Contract

When executed on the supplied CPU emulator, the translated code generated by
your translator should deliver the results mandated by the test scripts and
compare files supplied below.

## Resources

This CPU emulator allows executing, and testing, on your PC, the machine code
generated by your VM translator. Another tool that comes handy in this project
is the supplied VM emulator. The VM emulator allows experimenting with the
supplied VM programs before setting out to write your VM translator.

## Proposed Implementation

We propose implementing the basic VM translator API described in chapter 7 in
two stages. This will allow you to unit-test your implementation incrementally,
using the test programs supplied below.

**Stage I:** Handling stack arithmetic commands: The first version of your basic
VM translator should implement the nine arithmetic / logical commands of the VM
language as well as the VM command push constant x.

**Stage II:** Handling memory access commands: The next version of your basic VM
translator should include a full implementation of the VM language's push and
pop commands, handling the eight memory segments described in chapter 7. We
suggest breaking this stage into the following sub-stages:

1. You have already handled the constant segment;
2. Next, handle the segments local, argument, this, and that;
3. Next, handle the pointer and temp segments, in particular allowing
   modification of the bases of the this and that segments.
4. Finally, handle the static segment.

## Testing

The test suite checks our work, using the [tests](./test) described
[here](https://www.nand2tetris.org/project07).
